Do you need a cla powered a gentic OS?
As a gentic coding tools like claude
code only get more powerful, the gap
between what they can do and what the
average user can pull out of them only
gets bigger. And to close that gap, we
need a holistic architecture that solves
the big three problems almost every user
faces. And that's memory, consistency,
and a terminal interface that completely
intimidates non-technical users. Now,
claude code is going to be the engine of
our agentic OS car. One that remembers
everything we've done, executes our work
in the same way every time, and can be
driven by anyone on your team. And
today, I'm going to show you what that
looks like, why it matters, and what you
should be thinking about when you build
this for yourself. Now, what do we mean
when we say a cloud code powered agentic
OS? Are we just talking about some fancy
dashboard like this? Not exactly. What
we're really talking about is setting up
cloud code in a way that solves the big
three problems. And that is the memory
gap, the consistency gap, and the access
gap. Let's start with memory. What am I
talking about? Well, there's a reason
why every other video in your feed is
talking about Claude Code and Obsidian.
There's a reason why every other video
in your feed is talking about Carpathy's
Obsidian Rag system. And that's because
we are all trying to figure out a way to
have Claude code remember its past
conversations with us, have some sort of
memory store, and do this in a simple
manner that doesn't require you to
understand more complex rag systems. The
second problem is consistency. How can I
have cloud code do specific things in a
specific way to get a specific outcome
all the time? And the answer to that is
twofold. It's a combination of skills
and automations. And more so than just
skills and automations, it's setting it
up in a way that makes sense for either
you the individual and how you do daily
tasks or your company or your client's
company at large. There's a reason this
kind of looks like an org chart. What
you do or what your business does should
be kind of thought about in this way in
like a mental model in regards to how
you can integrate cloud code. For
example, this is kind of my setup. I
have cloud code is the engine. I have
Obsidian for memory. I have daily
productivity tools in the Google suite
via the GWS CLI. I have an entire branch
for research, an entire branch for
content. And then I can continue along
this line for anything custom I want.
Under each branch, underneath each
function, it could not be research and
content for you. Think about your
business. It could be sales and
marketing and admin. We have the skills
that allow me to do a specific thing in
a specific way for a specific outcome
based on that you know sort of function
for research I have all these specific
custom skills for YouTube I have all
these specific custom skills on and on
and on but it's set up in the specific
hierarchy so a I understand what's going
on what I need to change and b it's very
clear for cloud code how these things
need to be executed and then from there
you move on to automation do these
skills need to be on demand Do they need
to be run at a certain time? Can it be
run locally? Does it need to be run in
the cloud? Both. All the above kind of
dictates how you're going to use it. And
that's the consistency gap this sort of
agentic OS deals with. Lastly is the
accessibility gap and where something
like a command center or dashboard like
this comes into play. What the heck is
the point of creating some sort of
command center dashboard if I can do
everything through the terminal? Well,
there's a few reasons. First of all,
think of this from the perspective of a
non-technical member of your team who
either wants to start using claude code
and harness the power or they need to
start using cloud code and harnessing
its power but they just aren't going to
use the terminal. They just aren't. And
even something like co-work is a step
too far. Well, by creating an agentic OS
system like this, we can harness a lot
of the power of cloud code and a lot of
the power of all this stuff, all the
skills, the automations, all these sort
of things, but just turn it into a
button on the command center and run it
this way. If I took a random guy off the
street right now and I put them in front
of this dashboard and I said, "Here's
what these buttons do. Use them in X or
Y use case." Well, guess what? He just
kind of extracted 90% of the power of
cloud code without even having to open a
terminal. Now, can he build things from
this dashboard? Absolutely not. But I
can essentially take a nontechnical
member of my team, set them up with
cloud code, and they now have access to
a lot of its functionality if it's built
out for them. Now, those of you who are
more advanced when it comes to cloud
code and you're totally comfortable with
the terminal will scoff at that right
away. But I think there's something to
be said about if you are even on this
channel in the first place and you've
used cloud code, you are in a bubble
within a bubble and you have absolutely
no idea or you've completely forgotten
how intimidating this is for a lot of
people. And so this sort of dashboard
setup is huge if you want to bring
nontechnical members of your team into
the fold. And just like non-technical
members of your teams, potential clients
also tend to fall on the non-technical
side of the spectrum. And if you're
someone who runs an AI agency or sells
any type of AI implementation, you
understand one of the hardest things to
do is to sort of communicate what a tool
like Claude Code can actually do.
Because again, to most people, terminal
blackbox might as well be magic. But if
I make it look like an org chart and I
say, "Hey, Claude Code has memory. Hey,
it can handle sales, marketing, admin,
insert custom function, and we do that
via these skills, yada yada yada. Oh, by
the way, you never need to touch a
terminal. We're instead going to give
you dashboard. You're just going to
click these buttons as needed. All of a
sudden, it makes sense to them. And some
of you will definitely scoff at that,
but that's the truth. Packaging and
communication of the cloud code
ecosystem of the cloud code OS is a
massive, massive value play. and we'll
have a discussion at the end of this
video for those of you who are more
advanced about where you can actually
find some value in this sort of agentic
OS setup because I think you still can
pull value from this. Now, before we
dive into this a little more deeply, a
quick word from today's sponsor, me. If
you want to learn how to master cloud
code, especially if you aren't
technical, then you need to check out my
Claude Code Masterass, which includes
everything you see here today with the
Aentic OS, the setup, the skills, how to
customize it, all that. because this
master class is all about bringing you
up to speed on how to use cloud code
when it comes to real life use cases. So
if you want to get your hands on this,
it's inside of Chase AI plus. There is a
link to that in the pin comment. Now
let's dive into all these layers in a
little more detail starting with memory.
Now we kind of touched on this right
with the Carpathy Rag system. I've done
full videos on this showing you how to
set it up and I'll link that above. So
I'm not going to belver how to set this
up yourself. But a big question always
is, should I be using actual rag? You
know, should we be using light rag?
Should we be using superbase or pine
cone or something like that? I think the
answer is no. For most people, you do
not need a full-blown agentic rag
system. You just need some sort of basic
form of memory, and Obsidian does this
just fine. The standard setup we've
talked about in the past of having like
a raw, a wiki, and a projects type flow,
I think is perfect. And it's extremely
customizable. It's just folders, guys.
That's all that's going on here. And on
top of that, it's free. So memory is a
huge value ad to any cloud code system
and it is mandatory in an agentic OS
setup. Now let's talk about the rest of
this chart. This idea of productivity,
consistency, skills, and automations and
also the idea of customizing this
because this is going to be different
for you. You might not use Gmail. You
might not care about researching stuff
for content, let alone about posting
content. you are going to be o very much
over here in the custom branch. So how
would you create this and how do you
need to approach this? Well, like I
alluded to before, I think we need to
approach it from sort of a domain
perspective, an org chart perspective,
right? If this is a business, then one
of these needs to be marketing, right?
One of these needs to be sales. And we
break it down like this so you, the
human being, can have the proper mental
model. Claude Code is smart enough to
like for you to just throw all of this
in like a single folder and it can
figure it out. But you need to
understand how it works or else you're
never going to be able to improve it. So
in my example, I have a bunch of stuff
related to research. How do I and how do
you then determine the requisite skills
that you need to create or find on your
own to become sort of your research
stack or your sales stack or your
marketing stack? Well, luckily it's
pretty simple. These skills all need to
be a reflection of dayto-day tasks in
your actual workflow. So for me when I'm
doing research, what does my research
look like in the morning? Something very
broad. Where am I doing that you that
research? Well, sometimes it's on
YouTube. Sometimes it requires something
like firecrawl. What do I then do with
that research? Well, sometimes in
certain cases it does go to a light rag
system for me. Sometimes I need to send
it to notebook LM to do that. And
sometimes I have one-off use cases where
I need to do deep research that goes
well beyond a simple web crawl. The
point is you need to start thinking
about what are my daily tasks. Then turn
that task into a specific skill.
Sometimes these tasks will have subtasks
underneath them. Aka one skill will have
other skills beneath it. And then you
just have Claude code create those tasks
for you. And specifically you use the
skill creator skill to create said
skills. That way it's optimized in terms
of its title, description, its trigger.
We can test it. we can get actual
quantifiable data back. You then repeat
that process for each and every domain
of your personal life, business,
whatever it is you're applying the
agentic OS system to longterm. You then
adjust these skills and you update them
accordingly. Like everyone's going nuts
over stuff like Hermes cuz it has like a
self-updating skill kind of thing. My
opinion kind of goes overboard, but you
should approach this the same way. These
are not only ultimately customizable, we
can edit them forever. Just because you
create the skill once doesn't mean
that's how it has to stay. And again,
this is completely customizable. This
can apply to literally anything you,
your team, or your client does. Do they
have an e-commerce website on Shopify?
Are they using Stripe? Do they have some
sort of CRM tie-in? Are they deploying
things to GitHub? It's infinite. You can
do whatever, but you need some sort of
system. Now, once you create all the
skills you're going to use, next we need
to start thinking about automation. A,
do we need to automate it? Is this
something that's always going to be on
demand? If we do need to automate it,
then the question becomes, is this going
to be local
or is this going to be a cloud
automation? Something that's remote.
Remote is probably the better word here.
So, I have a skill. I have a task. Is it
going to be a local automation or is it
going to be a remote automation? Now, we
need to specify if it's going to be
local or remote because that's going to
change how we set up this automation,
this routine, this schedule task inside
of Cloud Code. Now, how do I know if it
should be local? or if it should be
remote. Well, the easy answer is you go
to clawed code, you tell it what you're
trying to do, and it's going to spit it
out for you, right? That's the easy
answer. The better answer is it depends
on what we're doing. If it is a task
that requires us to interact with
something on our computer, if it's a
task that requires some sort of CLI
that's on our machine. So, hey, if I'm
doing some sort of task that requires
the notebook LM PI CLI, is that
something I'm going to be able to
execute in the cloud with the Cloud Code
schedule tasks? No. But if it's a task
that includes skills that already are
native to Cloud Code, so let's say I
wanted to run a task where every morning
it does a web search about Claude Code
news and it turns into report. Well,
that's something that could totally be
remote, right? If it's native tools, it
doesn't interact with your computer
itself. It can be remote. If it's a task
that interacts with your files, your
folders, your CLIs, that is going to be
local. So, remote tasks are much more
constrained. However, with remote tasks,
because they are remote, I can run them
whenever I want. My computer can be shut
down. I don't have to be at the screen.
It's just going to run automatically in
the cloud, and it's going to push it
somewhere like GitHub. That's exactly
how remote tasks work with cloud code.
You can do this through the terminal.
You can do this through the desktop app.
But remote scheduled task will run no
matter what. So I have a GitHub daily
tasks. It looks at, you know, trending
GitHubs every single morning. Does that
in the cloud, not on my computer. I
don't have to be there. And then it
sends the report to my GitHub. Compare
that to my deep research workflow which
uses the notebook LMI CLI. It also
includes the firecross CLI. I can't do
that remotely in the cloud through cloud
code. There are ways to do that, but it
requires a lot more setup. Now, of note,
want to know why everyone goes nuts over
Mac minis? It's because of this
situation. It's because on a Mac Mini, I
can do all these local tasks forever.
It's on my computer, it never shuts
down, and I have none of the issues of
remote, right? Because it's a computer,
it has the CLIs, it has my local files.
So, you get the best of both worlds when
you have like a Mac Mini setup. That's
why everyone loves them. The other
potential workaround is you use
something like a VPS which is like okay
now I'm going to have cloud code hosted
on some remote server but again that
requires some technical setup. So when
it comes to automations how do I turn
this agentic OS system into something
that just runs all the time for specific
tasks. Well you have to know which route
you're going down. And that's sort of
the workflow when it comes to setting up
the actual tasks
that cloud code is going to do in this
agentic OS framework. And you simply
repeat that for any sort of domain you
want over and over and over again. And
again for client side type stuff for
someone who's running a AI agency, you
just package these. Oh, you want the
research pack? Oh, you want the content
pack? Oh, you want the marketing pack,
etc., etc. Being able to package things
and slap a name on it does increase the
value. Even if if we reduce it, it's the
exact same thing. And that brings us
here to the dashboard to the command
center, which is our visual link to
everything we spoke of. And just like
with the skill setup in the automations,
this is also infinitely customizable.
Now, the real power is down here where
we have taken all of your tasks, turned
them into skills or automations, and now
just turn them into buttons on a
dashboard that anyone can execute at any
time without even opening up Cloud Code.
So, for example, if I wanted to use my
vault cleanup skill and have Claude Code
clean up my vault, I just click it here.
It adds it to the prompt so I can adjust
as needed. But I click run and what's
happening in the background is claude
code is running headless. So it's just
like having an invisible claude code
terminal up and it's executing that
skill. Then you get a full response like
this which is also reflected inside of
the Obsidian vault. Speaking of the
vault, I can see all the recent changes.
I can see my forecast when it comes to
upcoming routines. I can see recent
runs. And then obviously up top here I
have some usage windows and I can open
up Cloud Code with this. I can quickly
go into my vault and ultimately I can
have this do whatever I want. I can
change out the usage for, you know,
anything. It could be like a rolling
update of certain, you know, Twitter
posters or hacker news or anything.
Point is, you can make this what you
want. But there is a ton of value of
setting it up this way again for your
non-technical team members or for a
client because, hey, we went through
this scenario where we walk through what
it is you do. We turned it into a skill
or an automation and hey, guess what?
Now you can run it yourself anytime you
want. You just click a button. And so as
you can see, we're taking all the power
of this, you know, all this leg work at
the beginning of setting up these skills
and these automations for you, your
team, and your client and distilling it
into the most simple form possible here.
And then we surround it with whatever
buttons, graphs, usage rates, cards,
tickers, whatever you want around it,
whatever makes sense to you and what you
need to see. And that is a huge value
play for 99.9%
of the population. Now for that 0.1% of
the population who's watching this who
is very proficient with claude code and
it's like okay like I get it. I get the
idea of hey we have Claude as a
conductor here and then you talk to
Claude code and we add the memory and
hey like this is a great mental model
for breaking things down and adding
skills that link to processes so we get
a specific outcome every single time. I
get that. But Chase, I already do that.
Like, I've been using claude code for a
long time. I understand how the terminal
works. I don't need to like write this
out or even have a visual for it. Like,
I get it. I I made the skills and I just
tell it to use the skills. Furthermore,
you know, I don't really understand the
the value for me for this sort of
dashboard. Like, okay, so I click a
button where otherwise I would have just
done like a forward slash or just use
natural language to call the skill. And
yeah, these things are cool, but like do
I need necessarily the rolling usage?
You know, like what's the value play for
me, the more experienced advanced user
for an agentic OS system? Well, the
truth is the value is what you make of
it because yes, if you are advanced
enough and the terminal is where you
live, you don't need frankly this sort
of like mental model and you can kind of
abstract this all away like the terminal
is not a black box for you. You
naturally understand where all this
works. I will argue that a lot of people
who say they don't need it have never
actually gone through the time or in the
depth that they should in terms of
breaking down the actual tasks they do
and really breaking down into skills.
But you still understand even if you
haven't done that how to do it in the
the theoretical application there in
terms of the command center and
dashboard for you the extremely
proficient cloud code user. Yeah, you're
not the one who's getting the value out
of this sort of setup. Like you already
get how to do this. You're the one who
made it. So the value to you again is
what you make it. Will you get value out
of having some sort of one-stop shop for
the outputs of all these things? Because
we can definitely go a step further than
what Obsidian does where everything's
broken down into a markdown file and all
these subfolders. What if we take all
those at a daily basis and we just put
it on a dashboard? Ultimately, that's
for you to decide. I'm not going to sit
here and, you know, tell you why that's
so great because it just depends.
Totally depends on your use case. But
yes, totally. The more advanced you are,
the less sort of frameworks you need,
the less architecture you need. But
understand, you aren't
the ICP here. Like, and you also aren't
part of totally the 99.9% of population
who needs this, who is asking for this,
and there's true value there. It just
isn't really given to them right now.
So, I think understanding this framework
makes a lot of sense for a lot of
people, even if it's just you and your
team members. So, that's where I'm going
to leave you guys for today. Okay, I
think you're going to see this agentic
OS framework type deal all over the
place. I think it's great to sort of
have this mental model and a clear
system of how you need to think about
cloud code in terms of setting up skills
and the architecture and memory and
automations and then being able to put
it in a single place that is easy for
you to execute because when we talked
about optimizing cloud code, you need to
optimize for you. There's no right or
wrong answer and I but I do think this
is a great step forward for most people.
Now, if you want to get this exact
system, like exact dashboard, all the
skills you see here, you can find all
that inside of Chase AI Plus, like I
talked about earlier. So, let me know
what you thought. Interested to see what
sort of systems you've used, um, any
ideas you got for improving this. But
besides that, I'll see you